Let's talk about key blocks.
So ordinarily elements
are just there in the DOM and
if you change the value inside them,
you're not gonna
play transitions,
which might not be what you want.
So here we have a typewriter transition
that we want to run on the text as
the text changes every
time we get a new message,
we want the typewriter to play it in.
And in order to do that, we need to
remove the element from the DOM and
then put a new one in and we do that
with something called a key block.
Key will take some value, and
whenever that value changes,
the contents of the key block
will be replaced all together.
So let's just put that around
this paragraph element here.
You'll now see that when that I
value changes on an interval,
we're getting rid of
the existing paragraph and
we're creating a new paragraph
with a new typewriter transition.
Finally, a particularly powerful aspect of
Svelte's transitions is
the ability to defer them so
that they can in effect,
talk to each other.
Here we have a pair to-do lists,
we have a list of to-dos that have yet
to be done and we have a list
of to-dos that have been done.
And if I toggle one of these items,
then it will just
move to the other list because
that's how we've set this up.
Inside our app,
we have a to-do list, which is done
equals false and
to-do this with done equals true and
the to-dos themselves are in
this store that we have,
which is coming from to-dos.js.
And in the real world,
things don't behave that way,
things don't disappear from one place and
reappear in another in the real world,
things move from one place to the other.
And it's nice if we can get
a little bit of that real world
physics-ness in our user interfaces
because using motion can help
users understand what's
actually happening in your app.
And we can achieve this in Svelte using
something called the crossfade transition.
If we open the transition.js module
you'll see that we're importing crossfade
from Svelte transition the same place that
we got fade and fly and slide and so on.
And we're also importing an easing
function and we're creating a pair
of transitions called send and receive,
by calling this crossfade function.
We're also specifying a fallback
which could be anything,
it could be a transition that you
imported from Svelte transition.
And then inside the to-do list Svelte,
we can use those send and receive
transmissions to control what happens when
those elements are added and removed.
We're gonna begin by importing
them from that module.
And then down here inside the to-do list,
we'll add the in and
out transitions on the list item.
So when an element enters the DOM,
we're gonna receive the element and
we're gonna give it a key,
which is the unique idea that to-do.
And similarly, when it leaves them,
we're gonna send it to
the other to-do list.
And so now when we toggle these values,
it actually moves from
one list to the other.
The reason that we're creating send and
receive in this separate module over here,
instead of doing it inside the to-do list
itself is because we have two to-do lists.
And so if we created the send and
receive functions inside the to-do list,
then send and receive would only be
able to talk within a to-do list.
But because they're in
this external module,
the two components can coordinate
their transitions with each other,
based on the key that we pass in when
the element is added or removed.
Now if you're paying close attention to
happenings in the web development world,
you'll know that there is in fact a view
transition API coming to the platform,
it's available in Chrome already.
Other browsers,
hopefully we'll add it soon, and so
eventually you might be able
to do this just with CSS.
But for right now, I recommend using
something inside Svelte because this way
you'll get a consistent user experience
whatever browser your user is using.
Okay, so just now we're using transitions
to move things from one side to the other,
that's great.
Except that I don't really like this
popping effect that when I move that
first to-do, the other ones
just kind of pop into place,
which is the exact opposite of
what we're trying to achieve here.
So we need to apply motion to the elements
that are not transitioning in and out
of the DOM, the elements that are staying
in the same list but are moving positions.
And so for this we can use something
called the animate directive.
When you animate with a flip
function we stands for
first-last invert play,
which is a technique that
allows us to do smooth
motion entirely with CSS transitions.
And once we've imported that,
we can add it to the list item where
we previously added the transitions,
just like this animate, flip.
And now when we toggle these values,
the list moves smoothly.
It's a little bit too slow though
it's not a very satisfying effect,
so we'll customize that with
a duration of 200 milliseconds.
Now one thing that you will wanna be
conscious of when you're using this in
your own apps, is that some users prefer
not to have motion in their apps and
so we can add a preferred
reduced motion setting.
That sets the duration to 0.
You can also pass a function for
the duration so
the the actual number of milliseconds will
be determined by the number of pixels
that the element has to move.
If that's more in line with the effect
that you're trying to achieve.